Carlos, I propose that we
focus on one of the ideas you have
given, which is to grow within
a segment of customers that are
the Runners and also incorporate
sales of services, that is,
we would be solving several of
the weaknesses you had identified,
because what I would like is
that you make us see how Canvas
helps us model an innovation,
that is, you have an idea,
but it is that the idea, at
the time you change something
within a block, this impacts
the rest of the business
model blocks, and this allows
you to model or even
manage your evolution.
Indeed, we'll see the impact
on the two blocks of the model
that has the thought of a pharmacy
office for the Runners.
Now we can talk about a specific
segment of customers to whom
our pharmacy office will offer
a differentiated value proposal.
So come, let's see.
Well, if we think of an
evolution of our business model
by focusing on a new segment of
customers that are the Runners,
we'll see the impact a change
like this has on the rest
of the model.
The most important thing, once
we have defined a new segment,
is to build a product and service
proposal suitable for that
segment.
Thinking of the Runners, there
are many new services and products
that we could incorporate into
our pharmacy so that we
really had a differentiated
value proposal.
However, there is one that is
relevant and on which we will be
based to see how to model the rest
of the campus, which would
be the study of the footprint in
this segment of customers
oriented to improve their
efficiency when running.
Once we have incorporated this
footprint studio as a trunk
element for this customer
segment, derived from this
we could also offer shoes
and tailored templates.
I insist that here we could
incorporate many more products
and services, but basically if
we focus on these, this would
give us the power to generate
new income flows derived
from this service and these
new side products we have
mentioned.
If we continue to see the impact this
change in the model would have on
the different blocks, we find
ourselves with distribution channels.
We should think about how to reach
this segment of customers to
offer this service.
Yes, because what I'm thinking is
that the runners are either able to
establish new channels of capture
or distribution or it's very complicated,
because runners from all over the
city, I think you would be
able to attract them, what I think
is they won't know, so you
have that challenge.
Well, then we'll see how to get
to them to communicate our new
value proposal, but thinking about
channels that would always
help us have a greater reach
in the market, I think
gyms could be perfectly
a valid channel that will
market this service.
Gymnases not only of our area and
even of the rest of our geographical
area of influence, in the extent
that we are offering a
service already very differentiated.
Logically, in order to offer
this service we will need
a specific equipment for this
footprint study and an expert
that we have today in our pharmacy
office.
This would mean making an investment
and therefore taking a risk that
is not necessary in principle.
I here always propose that we
begin with the externalization
of this type of additional
resources, both human
and equipment.
Once we have proven that
our business model works
well, we can incorporate
them as clear resources.
And we could also think of
other gyms that might not
be interested in marketing
this service, but that they
would prescribe us
and recommend us to their
clients to approach our
pharmacy office.
If we continue to analyze different
changes in the model, we have to
get to those runners, identify
them, know where they are, build
a differentiated value proposal,
we will have to incorporate
a certain marketing activity that
gives form to this value proposal
and that allows us to go
to the market to communicate it.
And in this context and for this
segment of customers such as runners,
generally young people, middle-
aged people and therefore using
new technologies, I think that
one way to communicate, as I
said at the beginning, this value
proposal would be social networks,
or have a Facebook page,
or build a blog specific
to this segment of customers.
And here just a nuance, I always
say that when a blog is built
from a pharmacy office we have
to be as specific as possible,
a blog for the runners, because
if in our blog we mix an article
that can interest this segment,
but the next day one of ordinary
incontinence because we
are losing the focus
on the segment and we would
make people cease to
have interest.
The more specific we are, the more
value we will bring and the more communication
and attraction of potential
customers we will have.
Well look Carlos, already to finish
it seems to me that the exercise
we have done is very enriching,
because what has helped us to see
is as from an idea that was we will
incorporate, we will go to the
runners, well because you have
described us very well, we have
seen as the implication that it
has in the rest of the business
model, and I what I propose to all
the meetings of Power MBA is that
from now on when they have an
idea they turn it on the canvas,
or when they have a new idea
or an evolution of a current business
model, for example of their
current company or whatever, that
they do this exercise, that they
identify what are the implications
that have the rest of the business
model, because in some cases
it is likely to come to the
conclusion that simply
doing this exercise
that your idea is not viable.
Imagine for example that in key
resources it results that
we need a capital or an investment
that we do not have, for example,
or that we have to establish
agreements with a distribution
channel that will never make us
a case, I don't know, I think about
the move.
In any case, I think it is very convenient
to do this exercise whenever someone
has an idea, an evolution,
etc., who wants to innovate
in something.
That is, as you say, I think
it's worth having this global
strategic vision of how our
future business model would
be, but as you said, I always
recommend spending 20 minutes
to see why it might not work.
This sometimes saves us a lot of
time to see the disadvantages or
handicaps before we throw ourselves
into an illusionary new business idea.
I am very grateful for
this, and here we end the
case of the pharmacy.
very well.